Before the Smart Hospital took its place on the corner of West Nedderman and Greek Row drives, Pickard Hall housed patient cubicles within its Learning Resource Center.
The center, equipped with a sink and a storage area, had room for students to practice their skills in what is now the University Advising Center, said Jenny Roye, assistant dean for simulation and technology.
After receiving a grant from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, a temporary space was made for the hospital in 2007, and this remains as the current location.
On Nov. 14 of last year, the UT System Board of Regents approved $60 million in funding for a new School of Social Work building that would also include a new Smart Hospital, according to a previous Shorthorn article.
Construction on the new building is expected to start January 2021, according to a university statement.
Nursing juniors and seniors use the current 13,000-square-foot Smart Hospital to learn skills and practice patient care via simulation.
Using practice mannequins or patient simulators, students can work with chest tubes, ventilators and catheters and practice pushing medicine through an IV, said Soohyun Kim, academic programs simulation manager.
Full body simulators are used along with test trainers, which are specific body parts used for more focused IV practice, he said.
The Smart Hospital has never been a functioning hospital, Roye said. It’s always been used for educational purposes.
Promoting patient safety has always been one of the main objectives of simulation, Roye said.
“If you want your nursing students to safely practice out in the facility and out when they become nurses, then they need to have a space to where they can make mistakes,” she said.
Simulation technology manager Erica Hinojosa said while using simulation as an educational tool can be fun, there is still the reality behind healthcare in difficult situations.
At the Smart Hospital, Hinojosa said they debrief the students after running simulations of different scenarios such as dehydrated, asthmatic or pediatric patients. In the debriefing process, students can express any feelings or difficulties they faced throughout the exercise.
In situations such as the pediatric scenario, multiple people are involved beyond the patient, from the pharmacist to the family, Hinojosa said.
Undergraduate students learning at the hospital gain foundational skills as they transition from team-based patient care to independent caregivers, Kim said. The hospital helps support student skills training through patient evaluation activities as well as interdisciplinary simulations.
Undergraduate and graduate nursing, along with public health and social work programs, collaborate on the poverty simulation, a scenario-based practice where students learn how to find resources for their patients and develop empathy for those living below the poverty level.
Now, thirteen years later, the large ward-like room used for simulations doesn’t reflect the patient care rooms of current hospitals.
Kim said they can’t run multiple simulations in the room because it gets too loud, causing them to waste the rest of the space. Adding individual patient care rooms in the new Smart Hospital would allow them to run more than one simulation at a time and better utilize the space, he said.
The College of Nursing and Health Innovation also works with various programs such as social work, athletic training and public health. While the new building is still in the planning stages, it’s important to keep in mind how the new space can be utilized for their interdisciplinary needs, Hinojosa said.
“It’s realistic,” Hinojosa said. “That’s what students see when they go into their working environment. They’re not just working with nurses, they’re gonna constantly be working with physicians and pharmacists and social workers.”

